Christmas Story 
(Sorry I tried to make it shorter - it’s slightly over 300 words)

It was our first winter in the village of Masset on the Queen Charlotte 
Islands.  My husband and I were lonely and in a mild depression due to the 
constant rain and the lack of decent vegetables and employment.  There were 
some compensations.... our little rented house, although drafty and cold, 
overlooked the bird sanctuary, and every morning we watched red sunrises over 
the water.  Also, 5 Trumpeter Swans were overwintering in the sanctuary.  Four 
of them were the “in” crowd and we named these Bob, Carol, Ted and Alice.  
The loner we called Elvis and when it wasn't pelting with rain I would walk 
down and sing "Are you lonesome tonight?"  to him.  He and I were both feeling 
blue.

Advent season came and Graham and I did our best to be festive.  We tried 
wiener roasts on North Beach, but the constant wind blew out our fires; we 
walked the beach looking for interesting wildlife and came upon a decomposing 
sea lion.  Our Gortex jackets leaked.

About a week before Christmas it snowed, a very uncommon thing on the 
Charlottes.  Even more uncommon, it stayed clear and cold, and no rain came to 
wash the snow away.  Have you had the experience of being the first to walk a 
beach covered with snow?  The wash of the waves into the snow is surreal.

On Christmas Eve we met with friends and plowed through Christmas Carols with 
harpsichord, banjo and violin.  Afterwards we walked home.  

The snow was now just crunchy bits of white.  We walked along the sanctuary, 
watching an almost full moon over the trees.  Graham stepped on a piece of ice 
and broke through the surface of a puddle.  The cracked ice sounded crisp and 
violent in the night and the five swans rose from the marsh and flew across the 
moon before settling a little further on.  

I remember thinking that Christmas might be joyous after all.

Karla Hennig
Terrace, BC
hennig@telus.net
(250) 635-5463
