Many years ago (pre child) Graham and I used to take our cats, Fidel and 
Che, with us on summer vacation.  The trip to Mudge is 3 days long - two long 
car days, and then a combined car/ferry day.

Every year it would be the same.  The first day the cats would be bemused and 
would assume the car was some new and exciting experience we had arranged just 
for them.  They would wander around the car, go in and out of their carrier 
case, look at the litter box with disdain, and find interesting little pockets 
to sleep in. 

The second day they would become agitated.  They would yowl and pace, succumb 
to fits of manic behaviour where they would ricochet around the car, bouncing 
off windows and clawing at any flesh that came close to them.  These days ended 
with both cats being locked into their carrier cases and a dissonant 
counterpoint of yowls accompanying the jazz on the radio for hours on end.

On the third day the cats would give up.  They would KNOW that this hell was to 
be their destiny for the rest of their lives and they were inviting death to 
come swiftly.  They would be lethargic, refuse any food and only take small 
bits of water.  They would gaze mournfully out the back window.  You could let 
them out of their carriers, because they had no interest in anything, and would 
certainly not use the energy to complain or scratch.  Even an opening door 
wouldn’t spark their interest.  

I think I have come to “day three” about this winter.  Yesterday, the last 
day of March, it was hard enough to wake up to fresh snow; but I KNEW this was 
winter’s last blast .. after all - it was almost APRIL.  But today, in some 
macabre travesty of April Fools Day we have blowing snow!  I took one look 
outside when I got up and promptly went back to bed for 2 hours.  I have just 
now made it out of bed and sit here, gloomily typing and gazing out of my 
skylight with absolute loathing.  I am SO READY for spring!!!


